README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/theKayani/hklib.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.com/theKayani/hklib)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.thekayani/hklib.svg?label=Maven%20Central)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:%22com.thekayani%22%20AND%20a:%22hklib%22)
[![javadoc](https://javadoc.io/badge2/com.thekayani/hklib/javadoc.svg)](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.thekayani/hklib)


# hklib

This is a collection of useful classes and functionalities that I found myself in need of over my years as a developer.

##### Version: 1.0.8

## Usage

#### Reference
You can access the Javadoc over at https://javadoc.io/doc/com.thekayani/hklib

The process to use it is very simple and are similar to each other.
Add the repository, and add the library/dependency

### Maven
Add `hklib` dependency

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.thekayani</groupId>
        <artifactId>hklib</artifactId>
        <version>1.0.8</version>
    </dependency>

### Gradle
Add `hklib` dependency

    dependencies {
	        implementation 'com.thekayani:hklib:1.0.8'
	}

### Flat `jar` File
You have access to the `jar` file with the compiled code and sources under GitHub releases.
You can download the `jar` file [here](https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.thekayani/hklib).
This can be used directly on the command line when executing a Java program using
the `-classpath` flag with the `java` command. Or added into your own project in various
IDEs.

#### Others
You can explore the other ways over at https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.thekayani/hklib

## Development

To develop this library further, you can clone the repo and use Maven to
import this project into the major Java IDEs such as Eclipse, Netbeans, and IntelliJ IDEA

Commit message:

completed lua io and fixed severe incompatibility
Completed lua reader and writer. The severe incompatibility was using the ":" operator along with a single string or table argument. This would cause a compilation error when without parenthesis

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/theKayani/hklib.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.com/theKayani/hklib)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.thekayani/hklib.svg?label=Maven%20Central)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:%22com.thekayani%22%20AND%20a:%22hklib%22)
[![javadoc](https://javadoc.io/badge2/com.thekayani/hklib/javadoc.svg)](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.thekayani/hklib)


# hklib

This is a collection of useful classes and functionalities that I found myself in need of over my years as a developer.

##### Version: 1.0.8

### Current Features
 - Extensive and customizable `LuaInterpreter` with strong Java integration
 - Fully featured JSON reader and writer (_w_ Object-Oriented serialization)
 - Various 2D/3D Matrix, Vector, Point, and Quaternion classes
 - A myriad of file helpers such as:
   - `FileUtil` - contains multiple methods to read/write and handle general files and folders
   - `ZipUtil` - contains functions to pack/extract ZIP or JAR files
   - `DataTag` - useful class for de/serializing Java objects to be written-to or read-from a file
   - `IniUtil` - read and write INI files
 - `java.util.Collection` helper classes as well as custom subclasses for collection classes
   - Lists: `LockableList`, `SortedList`, `ImmutableList`, `ListUtil`
   - Maps: `MapUtil`
   - Collections: `ComparatorUtil`, `CollectionUtil`
 - Math and Number utility classes to easily manipulate all types of primitive data
 - The `AlgebraicExpression` class which can read linear and quadratic expressions
   - Such as `x^2 + 5x - 3` and allow the user to plug in values
 - Super Light and Simple Neural Network implementation with full saving and loading capabilities
 - **Continuous Integration** to test all types of functions and methods contained within this library
   - Tests can be accessed over at [https://travis-ci.com/github/theKayani/hklib](https://travis-ci.com/github/theKayani/hklib)
 - _Available with various builders or as a flat JAR file library through Maven Central_

## Usage

#### Reference
You can access the Javadoc over at [https://javadoc.io/doc/com.thekayani/hklib](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.thekayani/hklib)

The process to use it is very simple and are similar to each other.
Simply add the library/dependency to your build file.

### Maven
Add `hklib` dependency

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.thekayani</groupId>
        <artifactId>hklib</artifactId>
        <version>1.0.8</version>
    </dependency>

### Gradle
Add `hklib` dependency

    dependencies {
	        implementation 'com.thekayani:hklib:1.0.8'
	}

### Flat `jar` File
You have access to the `jar` file with the compiled code and sources under GitHub releases.
You can download the `jar` file [here](https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.thekayani/hklib).
This can be used directly on the command line when executing a Java program using
the `-classpath` flag with the `java` command. Or added into your own project in various
IDEs.

#### Others
You can explore the other ways over at https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.thekayani/hklib

## Development

To develop this library further, you can clone the repo and use Maven to
import this project into the major Java IDEs such as Eclipse, Netbeans, and IntelliJ IDEA
